Hi everyone, in this video I'm going to walk you through how to use Interlibrary Loan,
often called ILL, through the North Central University Library.
Interlibrary Loan is a free service that allows you to request books or articles that we don't
currently have within our collection.
If we don't own something, that doesn't mean that you don't get it.
We can often borrow it from another library for you.
There are two main ways to use Interlibrary Loan, and I'm going to show you both.
So what is Interlibrary Loan?
Interlibrary Loan allows us to partner with other libraries to borrow materials on your
behalf.
You can request physical books, book chapters, journal articles, and other scholarly materials.
Articles are usually delivered electronically as PDFs.
Physical books are shipped to our library and you'll be notified when they're ready
for a pick-up.
However, there are a couple important limitations to keep in mind.
First, ebooks cannot be requested through Interlibrary Loan.
Due to publisher licensing restrictions, libraries are not able to lend ebooks to one another
the same way that we can lend physical books.
Second, if you are unable to come to campus, Interlibrary Loan is generally limited to
electronic article delivery.
Physical books must be picked up in person.
So if you're fully online and not able to visit campus, you'll primarily want to use
ILL for journal articles or book chapters that can be sent digitally.
The first way to request something is by filling out the Interlibrary Loan form directly on
our website.
To do this, you go to library.norscentral.edu.
That'll take us to our library homepage.
You're going to scroll down two quick links and click on this third link that says Interlibrary
Loan.
This will take you to the request form.
On the form, please enter as much information as possible about the item that you need,
such as the title, the author, the publication date, the journal title if it's an article,
the volume, the issue number, and page numbers.
The more complete your information, the faster we can process your request.
After you hit submit on the form, library staff will locate a lending library and place
the request.
You'll receive an email when your item is available or if we need additional details.
This method works especially well if you already have a full citation, if your professor gave
you a specific source, or if you found something outside our catalog.
The second way to use Interlibrary Loan is directly through our library catalog.
Here's how.
First, you will search the item in our library search bar.
If the item shows it's unavailable or if we don't have full access, look for an option
that says Request Through Interlibrary Loan.
Here I'm going to click on Expand My Search to Libraries Worldwide.
We'll find our item and we're going to click on Request Through Interlibrary Loan.
When you click on that option, much of the item's information will automatically transfer
into that request form for you.
This reduces errors and saves time since you won't have to manually input all of the details.
Once this is submitted, the request follows the same process.
We'll locate a lending library and notify you when the material is ready.
This method is helpful because it confirms that we don't already own the item before
you submit a request.
Turnaround times can vary.
Articles often arrive within a few days.
Physical books can take a little bit longer depending on shipping time.
If you're working on a deadline, please try to submit your request as early as possible.
Just to review, interlibrary loan is free for all students, staff, and faculty.
Ebooks cannot be requested through this service.
Physical books must be picked up on campus.
If you are fully online and unable to visit campus, ILL will mainly be used for electronic
article delivery.
And lastly, alumni cannot use interlibrary loan, unfortunately.
If you're ever unsure whether something qualifies, just reach out and ask.
Interlibrary loan is a powerful tool that expands your access far beyond what's physically
in our building.
If we don't have something, don't assume that it's unavailable.
We may be able to borrow it for you.
And as always, if you have questions, we're here to help.
Happy researching!